software-engineer.md, before:

# Use Terminology Well
The Term of Art
noun - a word or phrase that has a precise, specialized meaning within a particular field or profession.

# Tips
Customization through composition

# What is a program
Every computer program is a model, hatched in the mind, of a real or mental process.

# Master software engineer
Master software engineers have the ability to organize programs so that they can be reasonably sure that the resulting processes will perform the tasks intended.
They can visualize the behavior of their systems in advance.
They know how to structure programs so that unanticipated problems do not lead to catastrophic consequences, and when problems do arise, they can debug their programs.
Well-designed computational systems, like well-designed automobiles or nuclear reactors, are designed in a modular manner, so that the parts can be constructed, replaced, and debugged separately.

# How language matter?
Languages are powerful tools for thinking.
Different languages encourage different ways of thinking and lead to different thoughts.
Hence, inventing new languages is a powerful way for solving problems.
We can solve a problem by designing a language in which it is easy to express a solution and implementing an interpreter for that language.

# What is an interpreter?
An interpreter is just a program.
As input, it takes a specification of a program in interpreter some language.
As output, it produces the output of the input program.

# How to implementing an interpreter?
To implement an interpreter for a given target language we need to:

1. Implement a parser that takes as input a string representation of a program in the target language and produces a structural parse of the input program.
The parser should break the input string into its language components, and form a parse tree data structure that represents the input text in a structural way

2. Implement an evaluator that takes as input a structural parse of an input program, and evaluates that program.
The evaluator should implement the target language’s evaluation rules.

# How many approach to problem solving
So far, we have seen two main approaches for solving problems:

1. Functional programming
Break a problem into a group of simpler procedures that can be composed to solve the problem.

2. Data-centric programming
Model the data the problem involves, and develop procedures to manipulate that data.

# More on problem solving approach
All computational problems involve both data and procedures.
All procedures act on some form of data; without data they can have no meaningful inputs and outputs.
Any data-focused design must involve some procedures to perform computations using that data.
By packaging procedures and data together, object-oriented programming programming overcomes a weakness of both previous approaches.
The data and the procedures that manipulate it are separate. ( why? )

# More on problem solving approach (2)
How to and when to do the separation might be the answer.
I dont know it yet.

Commit message:

copied text from shopify engineering
source: https://shopify.engineering/deconstructing-monolith-designing-software-maximizes-developer-productivity

software-engineer.md, after:

# Use Terminology Well
The Term of Art
noun - a word or phrase that has a precise, specialized meaning within a particular field or profession.

# Software architecture
No architecture is often the best architecture in the early days of a system.
This isn’t to say don’t implement good software practices, but don’t spend weeks and months attempting to architect a complex system that you don’t yet know.

# Tips
Customization through composition

# What is a program
Every computer program is a model, hatched in the mind, of a real or mental process.

# Master software engineer
Master software engineers have the ability to organize programs so that they can be reasonably sure that the resulting processes will perform the tasks intended.
They can visualize the behavior of their systems in advance.
They know how to structure programs so that unanticipated problems do not lead to catastrophic consequences, and when problems do arise, they can debug their programs.
Well-designed computational systems, like well-designed automobiles or nuclear reactors, are designed in a modular manner, so that the parts can be constructed, replaced, and debugged separately.

# How language matter?
Languages are powerful tools for thinking.
Different languages encourage different ways of thinking and lead to different thoughts.
Hence, inventing new languages is a powerful way for solving problems.
We can solve a problem by designing a language in which it is easy to express a solution and implementing an interpreter for that language.

# What is an interpreter?
An interpreter is just a program.
As input, it takes a specification of a program in interpreter some language.
As output, it produces the output of the input program.

# How to implementing an interpreter?
To implement an interpreter for a given target language we need to:

1. Implement a parser that takes as input a string representation of a program in the target language and produces a structural parse of the input program.
The parser should break the input string into its language components, and form a parse tree data structure that represents the input text in a structural way

2. Implement an evaluator that takes as input a structural parse of an input program, and evaluates that program.
The evaluator should implement the target language’s evaluation rules.

# How many approach to problem solving
So far, we have seen two main approaches for solving problems:

1. Functional programming
Break a problem into a group of simpler procedures that can be composed to solve the problem.

2. Data-centric programming
Model the data the problem involves, and develop procedures to manipulate that data.

# More on problem solving approach
All computational problems involve both data and procedures.
All procedures act on some form of data; without data they can have no meaningful inputs and outputs.
Any data-focused design must involve some procedures to perform computations using that data.
By packaging procedures and data together, object-oriented programming programming overcomes a weakness of both previous approaches.
The data and the procedures that manipulate it are separate. ( why? )

# More on problem solving approach (2)
How to and when to do the separation might be the answer.
I dont know it yet.
